# CONTRIBUTING

This is a small collection of rules we have agreed on to facilitate collaborating on this repository.

# Directory structure

The repo structure follows standard R package structure with some extras:

* `data` (R package structure) contains sample data sets with .rda extension that can be used in function examples and tests. These data sets can be imported by `data(<name>)`. **These are separate from the data sets we work with!** Working data sets are all stored in local directories and are not tracked by Git.
* `DESCRIPTION` (R package structure) contains basic information about the package/repo.
* `man` (R package structure) contains function documentation that you can look up from within R. These can be generated/updated with `devtools::document()`. Do not edit these by hand.
* `NAMESPACE` (R package structure) is a namespace file, do not edit it by hand, use the R functions `devtools::load_all()` and `devtools::document()` to edit the namespace file.
* `R` (R package structure) contains R functions, one file for each function. Documentations are written above the code in roxygen style. These are later used by `devtools::document()` to generate the `man` pages.
* `scripts` (extra) contains scripts (in any language) that are used within the workflow.
* `tests` (R package structure) contains unit tests, one file for each function. Unit tests are written using the `testthat` package.
* `workflow.sh` (extra) is a shell script that can be used to run the whole workflow.

The repo contains three local directories not tracked by Git. These are:

* `analyses` for storing data reports.
* `cache` for storing objects generated by scripts.
* `input` for storing input data required by scripts.

# Typical workflow

A typical workflow would include:

1. Cloning the repo from GitHub.
2. Adding some data to the **local** `input` directory.
3. Optionally adding intermediate files to the **local** `cache` directory.
4. Running the whole workflow with `workflow.sh` or cherry picking some of the scripts in the `script` directory.
5. Collecting results from the **local** cache directory and/or using them inside an analysis stored within the **local** `analyses` directory.
